# Action Bar
**Tips to follow when creating your Action Bar:**
* When setting a menu item to be an action item, avoid using the "always" value. In your menu resource, use "ifRoom" for the android:showAsAction attribute if you'd like the menu item to appear in the action bar. However, you might need "always" when an action view does not provide a default action for the overflow menu (that is, it must appear as an action view). However, you should not use "always" more than once or twice. In almost all other cases, use "ifRoom" as the value for "android:showAsAction" when you want the item to appear as an action item. Forcing too many action items into the action bar can create a cluttered UI and action items may overlap with other action bar elements such as the title or navigation items.
* When adding action items to the action bar with a text title, also provide an icon, when appropriate, and declare showAsAction="ifRoom|withText". This way, if there's not enough room for the title, but there is enough room for the icon, then only the icon may be used.
* Always provide a title for your action items, even if you don't enable "withText", because users can view the title as a "tool-tip" by performing a "long click" on the item—the title text appears momentarily in a toast message. Providing a title is also critical for accessibility, because screen readers read aloud the item title even when not visible.
* Avoid using custom navigation modes when possible. Use the built-in tab and drop-down navigation modes when possible—they're designed so the system can adapt their presentation to different screen sizes. For example, when the width is too narrow for both tabs and other action items (such as a handset in portrait orientation), the tabs appear below the action bar (this is known as the "stacked action bar"). If you must build a custom navigation mode or other custom views in the action bar, thoroughly test them on smaller screens and make any necessary adjustments to support a narrow action bar.
